Hi Shu,

I found some free data for the brain image which looks good. It's from
a fake brain used for MRI system testing:
http://www.bic.mni.mcgill.ca/brainweb/

The nice thing is that it's in 3D volume coordinates, so this means
you can let the user choose slice angles. There is a raw data format
in which each byte represents a 3D pixel (there is also a 2-byte-per
pixel option, but I don't think we need this). The default image
download options are appropriate. In the raw file, it looks like each
byte corresponds to the brightness you would show at a certain
location. The locations are in mm coordinates. The pixels make up a
cube. They are ordered so that first row of pixels is given
corresponding to an edge of the cube, then another row, one in from
the edge, and so on until the whole face is complete. Then the next
plane in from the face is given in the same manner. The volume of the
cube with 1mm pixels is 181x217x181, with starting coordinates -72,
-126, -90 (this is in order z y x, but I don't know which anatomical
directions this reference frame corresponds to).

By the way, how will you do this? I don't have any experience with
graphics, but I was poking around the Java API and
java.awt.image.Raster looked like a good option to me (you would use
SampleModel and DataBuffer to create an image by interpolating the
downloaded data based on slice depth and angle). Does this make sense
or is there a better way to do it?

Bryan


References for BrainView data:
    * http://www.bic.mni.mcgill.ca/brainweb/
    * C.A. Cocosco, V. Kollokian, R.K.-S. Kwan, A.C. Evans : "BrainWeb: Online Interface to a 3D MRI Simulated Brain Database"
      NeuroImage, vol.5, no.4, part 2/4, S425, 1997 -- Proceedings of 3-rd International Conference on Functional Mapping of the Human Brain, Copenhagen, May 1997.
          o abstract available in [html], [pdf (500Kb)], or [gnuzip-ed postscript (500Kb)].
          o poster available in [pdf (1.1Mb)], or [gnuzip-ed postscript (850Kb)]. 
    * R.K.-S. Kwan, A.C. Evans, G.B. Pike : "MRI simulation-based evaluation of image-processing and classification methods"
      IEEE Transactions on Medical Imaging. 18(11):1085-97, Nov 1999.
    * R.K.-S. Kwan, A.C. Evans, G.B. Pike : "An Extensible MRI Simulator for Post-Processing Evaluation"
      Visualization in Biomedical Computing (VBC'96). Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 1131. Springer-Verlag, 1996. 135-140.
          o paper available in [html], [postscript (1Mb)], or [gnuzip-ed postscript (380Kb)].
          o poster available in [grey-scale postscript (5.3Mb)], [grey-scale, gnuzip-ed postscript (536Kb)], or [colour, gnuzip-ed postscript (597Kb)]. 
    * D.L. Collins, A.P. Zijdenbos, V. Kollokian, J.G. Sled, N.J. Kabani, C.J. Holmes, A.C. Evans : "Design and Construction of a Realistic Digital Brain Phantom"
      IEEE Transactions on Medical Imaging, vol.17, No.3, p.463--468, June 1998.
          o paper available in [html]. 

